hello it's ruby and today i am going to
be sharing with you
a victorian scullery made morning
routine
so this video is following the upper
class victorian morning routine which i
followed a couple of weeks ago
in that video i did mention how huge
the wealth divide was in the victorian
era and you will really see this when
you compare this morning routine to the
last one
my main intention in making this video
is
for it to be educational and for it to
teach you something about
what life was like for victorian
scholarly maids because it seemed wrong
to upload the last one
and then not make this one the victorian
period is fascinating
and i find it very interesting and so i
hope that you walk away from this video
having learned something i am so so
conscious though of this video
romanticizing the period
and particularly romanticizing the
experiences
of a scholarly maid being a scholarly
maid was hard work
they will work the hardest in the house
sometimes as young as nine or ten
and they would also work for very little
so the salary was about five to nine
pounds a year which is hardly anything
actually in mrs beaton's 1861 the book
of household management
discovery made was the only servant in
the house that
the writer expresses some degree of
empathy towards she says that she is
perhaps the only one of her class
deserving of commiseration
her life is a solitary one and in some
places her work is never done
so really just bear that in mind whilst
watching this i'm
not intending to glamorize the
experience of a scholarly maid
and yeah i just hope that this video can
teach you something
a victorian scholarly maid would usually
wake up at
about 6am but it could be as early as 5
in the morning
a scholarly maid would usually sleep in
the attic usually
sharing the room with the kitchen maid
and it was also not uncommon for the
scullery maid and the kitchen made to
even share a single bed
if you lived in the textiles district
you might have had a rag rug
for when you got out of bed but if not
you would have been stepping onto
very very cold ground
so the room would have been very very
cold when they woke up
windows were always left open to prevent
the spread of disease because as dr
henry chavez said it was like inhaling
poison to sleep in a room where the
window was closed
and so even in the dead of winter in the
drafty attic
the windows would be left open
she would have washed using a wash basin
and jug and
the water would likely have been left
overnight in the bedroom whilst upper
and middle class people could have used
warm water she would have had to use
cold water
and would not have been able to access
soap as well
over the course of the period soap did
become more accessible and much cheaper
with um sleep rounds like pears at the
beginning of the century
it was um it was too expensive for
normal people to buy
cold water was actually thought to be a
good choice overall though because it
was thought to improve circulation
[Music]
so
scholarly maids would usually be issued
with two aprons
so that one could be clean and they
could
wash them in between
she would comb out her hair a simple
scented parting and
high bun was um deemed quite fashionable
and then over the course of the century
the fashionable height of the bun
changed a lot so sometimes it was a low
bun sometimes
a high bun sometimes a middle bun
[Music]
so then it's time to go downstairs and
get started with tools for the day this
would usually be
like 5 30 to 6 30.
[Music]
lighting the fires was the very first
point of cool this is so that the house
would warm up a little before the family
wake up obviously would take a long time
for
it actually to heat up the rooms but it
would make it a lot easier for the
family when they
did wake up and also so that there would
be hot water for
the wash basins and tea from the family
a scullery maid would clean the ash from
the fire and probably get really dirty
in the process and then she would also
light the fires
[Music]
she was also responsible for cleaning
the kitchen in the morning so she wiped
down all the surfaces
she would mop this was often before many
of the servants were downstairs
as i said the scholarly maid was hugely
overworked and often started work
earlier than the other servants in the
house
so a scholarly maid was an underservant
which means that she would have served
the servants
so for example she would be responsible
for serving the servant's tea
there was separate crockery for servants
and then the
family
[Music]
the century before green tea had been
the most popular but black tea was
by far the most popular tea in the
victorian period
she would also wash up from the
servant's breakfast so there were two
separate sinks one was for the china and
glassware which this was a wood sink
and the footman under the butler would
wash up
this stuff and then the scullery maid
would wash up in an enamel sink
and this would be for pots and pans and
also the servants
uh cutlery and crockery hot water would
be boiled on the stove and then poured
into the sink to wash up
so it was only after doing all of this
that she would finally be able to make
her own breakfast
so she would be like hugely hungry by
this point think this is like
nearly nine o'clock and she hasn't eaten
and she's done all of that manual labor
and also as i said she is likely very
young
so a standard breakfast for a scullery
made was
a hunk of bread tea and cocoa i was very
interested to hear that
cocoa was like a very standard part of a
victorian diet
it was thought to have medicinal powers
and in the late 18th century you would
have been able to find it in chemists
this was usually
unsweetened and and um yeah cocoa became
much more accessible during the
victorian period it was seen as a staple
but quite concerningly
the cheap cocoa which was sold might
have included red lead or brick dust
to pad it out and make it cheaper to
produce which is really really
disturbing
[Music]
so then after breakfast it would be time
for morning prayer where everybody in
the house
all of the servants and the family
would gather together for morning
prayers and bible study
[Music]
so thank you so much for watching this
video i hope that you enjoyed it and and
i hope that it taught you something
new about the victorian period i really
enjoy learning about the
daily experiences of different people
from the past and
specifically the victorian period
because so much happened in the 19th
century
as i said it's really important not to
over romanticize the period
and forget the huge
systematic issues which existed in
victorian
british life let me know if you want to
see more videos related to the
victorians
i really really enjoyed this format of
video and
enjoy teaching you about the victorians
and um
like doing the research and preparation
for these videos it's just so much fun
so
let me know if there's anything in
particular that you'd like to see i do
have some ideas but it'll be great to
know
what you would like to see anyway thank
you for watching and i hope that you
have a productive week
[Music]
you